+++
date = "2016-06-05T11:59:00-07:00"
draft = true
title = "The East Buttress of Middle Cathedral"
tags = ["climbing"]
+++

After being introduced to climbing in the valley about a year ago, I've been
constantly building and refining an ordered list of Classic Climbs that I Must
Do. The east buttress of middle cathedral occupied a special spot on The List,
because it seemed like it would be both a way to push my boundaries and a
shitload of fun. According to everything I had read beforehand, the route
offered continuous 5.8 to 5.10c climbing over 11 pitches of perfect granite. I
can barely lead 5.9 trad climbs and I've never done more than 5 pitches of 5.8,
so this route seemed like the next logical step up. The route offers lots of
possibilities to aid through the cruxes and to bail if needed, so why not?

The opportunity came last week when I was in the valley with my buddy Gavin.
Gavin climbs at about the same level and has the same amount of stoke (very
high), so we went for it on a sunny day. We got to the pullout and finished
racking up at around 8:30, and thanks to a well marked climber's trail we
got to the base of the climb around 9.

We swung leads the whole time, and I took the first lead linking up pitch 1 and
2. Pitch 1 was about 100 feet of reasonably easy climbing, but it quickly heats
up at the start of P2 with a 5.8 roof. The roof was a little tricky and took me some
extra time to figure out, but it wasn't too bad once I found a hidden jug. The
rest of the climbing to the top of P2 was fairly easy. The rope drag at the top
of P2 was *horrendous*; I should've used longer slings at the roof.

*insert top of p2 pictures here*

Gavin took the next lead, which was a linkup of pitches 3 and 4. Our 60 meter
rope was just long enough to link the 2 pitches. These pitches were fantastic.
The start to P3 was a somewhat stiff 5.8 fingercrack wedged into a corner, and
the rest of the 2 pitches were super fun laybacks. The climbing was very
interesting and confidence inspiring, especially on toprope.

*top of p4 pictures*

The next pitch was the crux pitch, and it fell on me. There are 2 options for
pitch 5: the original route, which starts with a bolt ladder that can go free
at 5.10c and then continues to a 5.9 roof, or a 5.10a face climb that continues
to a small roof and easier face climb. After debating with myself outloud, I
eventually said *fuck it* and went for the 10a face climb option. I figured it
would be an even larger accomplishment to do the whole route free.

The free variation was actually quite fun. The face climb leading up to the
roof was easier than expected, and the roof took a little bit of thought but it
wasn't horrible. After the first bolt (which is easy to get to), the crux is
relatively easy to protect. The face climb after the roof is an incredibly fun 5.6
filled with big juggy slopers. The face gave way to a fun little layback
section, which ends the pitch at a ledge with a set of bolts.

Looking at the topo, I thought that it would be straightforward to link pitches
5 and 6 with a 60 meter rope. When I got to the anchor at the top of P5, I
decided to go for it even though the rope drag was already kind of bad. The
first half of P6 is a face climb requiring lots of balance; the rope drag
didn't help with that. The second half was a layback up to another ledge. I
just made it onto the ledge when I heard Gavin yell out "Joe, you have 5
feet!", and unfortunately the chains were 15 feet over to the right on the
ledge. After some back and forth, we decided to simul-climb to the P6 anchor.
Fortunately, Gavin only had to do a short easy traverse to the first bolt of P5
to give me enough slack to get to the anchors. I anchored in with a great sigh
of relief, put Gavin on belay, and ate a sandwich.

*top of p6 pictures*

Gavin led the next pitch (P7), which consisted of more fun layback cracks in
left-facing corners. We both made quick work of it. I took pitch 8, which was
one of the most memorable of the whole climb. The pitch started with a short
blocky section narrowing down to a wide handcrack in the back of a big flared
groove. The end of the pitch was yet another fun layback to short face
traverse. The climbing was very heady and thought-provoking; it was easy to
climb poorly with haste, but the climbing was easy when done right.

*top of p8 pics*

At this point, fatigue was beginning to set in. We had started at a
less-than-ideal time when the route was beginning to get sun, and we had baked
in direct sunlight for the whole time. It was around 1:30 when we both got to
the top of P8 and only then were we escaping the sun. We took a little break to
recuperate and hydrate, then Gavin set off on P9.

Pitch 9 was a less memorable pitch. It followed a small crack up more left
facing corners. Pitch 10 was my last lead. The pitch started with a
surprisingly hard finger crack that was marked 5.6 on the topo, then continued
up a narrow crack system into a section of 5.8 finger crack that goes into a
gully. I was moving exceedingly slow on this bit, making sure I was using the
least amount of energy possible without getting too careless.

*top of p10 pics*

The last pitch, pitch 11, was Gavin's lead. The first half was a large flaring
5.7 chimney followed by some easier 4th class. The chimney was quite unwelcome
to both of us; we both had packs on and aren't fans of chimnies. Gavin grunted
his way up, I followed in the same fashion, and we promptly collapsed at the
top-out and devoured the rest of our food and water.

*topout pics*

The descent was a little more than we bargained for. We followed the beta in
the guidebook for the Kat Walk to the best of our abilities, but we ended up
following a pseudo-trail to a series of 5 rappels with our single 60m
rope. According to [this topo](http://web.stanford.edu/~clint/yos/katpen.htm),
we went down the penny pinnacle rappel route instead. We missed the last
rappel (rappel 8 in the topo), and I ended up downclimbing 10 feet in a large
chimney to flat ground, while Gavin downclimbed some dirty 3rd class. It was a
little unnerving following a route that was obviously not in our guidebook, but
fortunately it was a very well established rappel route. We spent the next 45
minutes scrambling back down the gully between higher cathedral and middle
cathedral to the car.

*pictures of descent*

We spent almost 7 hours climbing, about 2 and a half hours on the descent, and
around 30 minutes on the approach, bringing us to a grand total of 10 hours.

