+++
date = "2013-02-09T23:05:24-07:00"
draft = false
title = "Hooligans and Curry"
tags = ["travel", "adventure"]

+++
	Our first activity of the day was going to the Oxford-Bristol soccer game. We
were warned before that both teams are 5-th or 6th level teams (as opposed to
1st level, like Man. U. or Arsenal, etc) and are therefore shitty, and also
that no one in Oxford besides hardcore local fans really cares about Oxford
football. Despite these warnings, we couldn't be prepared for the magnitude of
the cultural experience we were about to get.

We take the bus there and are
instantly greeted by hundreds of police officers lined up along the trail. I'm
used to police presence at sporting events, but have never seen this many for
such a small game. We immediately head to the beer tent outside of the stadium.
The tent contains a couple of counters selling beer and cheap burgers, and the
whole place is packed with fans. Once we grab beers we stand outside of the
main crowd, who begin chanting loudly and in completely unintelligible accents.
According to Connor, they were first chanting about Oxford's and Bristol's
hatred of a mutual rival, and then the Bristol fans switched to chanting about
their own team. It was hilarious listening to a bunch of drunk fans chant
nonsensical things, but eventually the volatile combination of alcohol and
rabid rival soccer fans turned sour (shocking, I know).

About 20 minutes from our arrival, a fight breaks out in the middle of the
crowd. The cops quickly run over and break up the fight and surrounding crowd,
which has a few effects. It broke up the main fight, but it also turned the
crowd up a notch in anger and it dispersed everyone else who wanted to fight
all around the parking lot. While this might not have been the ideal outcome,
the cops were absolutely obligated to come in and break up the main mob before
people started to get seriously hurt. Anyways, things start to get a bit more
intense. Once the cops dispersed the main mob, we slowly tried to make our way
to the stadium, but fights kept breaking out all around us. We stood only a few
meters away from some, watching drunk British men seriously try and beat the
crap out of each other with nothing held back. The standout fight happened as
we were trying to edge around a grassy knoll. Two rival groups of about 5
people each saw each other from opposite sides of the knoll and immediately
charged each other. Connor's friend summed it up perfectly when he said it
looked like "a shitty version of braveheart". They met each other with drunken
ferocity I'd never seen. I still vividly remember one guy knocking another over
onto his knees and then kicking him square in the face. After seeing this
outbreak, we started to walk with a little more purpose towards the stadium.
Fortunately, seating is segregated in the stadium, making it the safest place
to be in a few mile radius. 

---

![riot police](/images/riot_police_small.jpg)
<center>The police barricade after the game</center>

---

As we were warned, the actual game was horrible. The level of soccer was
noticeably lower than any game you'd ever see on tv. The first half mostly
consisted of each team booting the ball back and forth, with occasional passing
and moments of real soccer. It wasn't that pretty to watch, but at the very
least the crowd provided great entertainment. Highlights included a drunk old
guy behind us calling a player a "fat cunt" at the top of his lungs, two
younger teenage fans calling every player "shit" in a scathing tone with thick
accents, and the constant yelling between the two extremely well barricaded
sections. The other team won by a PK and a sloppy breakaway goal, and we left
before the rival team's fans started to leave.

Leaving the stadium, there was a row of about 100 police officers barricading
the rival fans from oxford fans, which provided much-needed separation and a
great photo op. We promptly left on the next bus to town and went back to Tom's
house to reflect on the experience.

---

After getting a couple drinks in us, we went to curry with the bros and the
lads. "Getting curry" is a popular activity in Oxford, exclusively because all
of the curry restaurants are BYOB. As you might imagine, this attracts tons of
college students. We got there around 8:30 or so, which was just late enough to
be seated next to 2 loud tables full of drunk college students making speeches
and drinking. We got some curry, did more drinking, and eventually became those
obnoxious college students, making speeches and all. Tom ordered a fancy dish
that came out sizzling, and one of the lads said "happy birthday" jokingly to
Tom. We thought nothing of it, but after dinner was done a waiter brought out a
complementary birthday cake for Tom, so we had to give fake birthday speeches
about Tomas. I froze up in the middle of mine, Hannah and Jimmy made friendly
and praising speeches, and all of the lads' speeches were (predictably) filled
with healthy amounts of sarcasm and insults. Connor went last, and decided it
more appropriate to punch the cake instead of actually making a speech.  After
eating some disfigured cake, we went to a couple more pubs and then headed back
to bed.
	
