+++
date = "2016-08-30T11:59:00-07:00"
draft = true
title = "Regular Route on Fairview Dome"
tags = ["climbing"]
+++

My day began on a bright and sunny morning in Tuolumne meadows without a
partner. I had prevoiusly arranged to spend the day climbing with a user on
mountain project, but when I met him he was on his way out to do laundry in Lee
Vining. This was undesirable yet understandable, given he was living and
climbing in the meadows for 2 months. Upon hearing this, I started scanning the
Tuolumne Meadows general store parking lot for other potential partners.

After about a half hour sitting in the back of my van reading a book with my
climbing gear visible, I spied a potential candidate. Approach shoes? Check.
Nice bed in the back of his car? Check. Build of a climber? Check. He also had
a settlers of catan bumper sticker, an unambiguous sign of good taste. His name
was Jack, and to no one's surprise, he was also up in the meadows on a climbing
trip. He couldn't find his friends he was supposed to do Matthes Crest with, so
we didn't waste any time taking off to go climb somewhere else.

Our first objective was West Crack on Daff dome, which is a classic 5.8 route that
ascends a splitter crack up the side of the dome over 4 pitches. We made quick
work of it, and afterwards wanted something a little more substantial. Staring
us in the face was Fairview dome, and what better route to attempt than the
most famous one leading directly up its prow? When I mentioned that the regular
route was in the [famous list of 50 classic
climbs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fifty_Classic_Climbs_of_North_America),
Jack got especially psyched to give it a go. It was 1pm, there were no clouds
in the sky, no chance of thunderstorms, and we were ready to send.

We got to the base of the climb around 2 or so. I took the first pitch, which
is the crux of the whole climb. It started with 75 feet of easy climbing, then
as the dome curved up it got steadily harder, until the crux about 150 feet up
which is a slippery 5.9 fingercrack in a corner. I put in a prolific amount of
pro and managed to make it clean to the belay. We had a 70 meter rope, which
allowed me to make it to a spacious ledge with a tree to anchor to. I highly
recommend getting to this ledge any way possible for the end of the first
pitch, even if you have to simulclimb on a 60 meter. There aren't any spots
better than this one.

![](/images/small_IMG_4792.jpg)
*Looking down on the first pitch. The crux was right below the bright part of
the crack*

We swung leads the whole climb, thus Jack took pitch 2 while I enjoyed the
view. The majority of pitch 2 was an awesome flaring hand crack. It was rated
5.8, but it was surprisingly sustained. I was starting to get a little
fatigued, but the climbing was just moderate enough and too damn fun to get
tired.

![](/images/small_IMG_4790.jpg)
*Looking up pitch 2. The rope disappears up the corner and the pitch eventually
makes its way to a ledge on the left*

The third pitch wasn't as obvious as the first two. I ended up meandering up a
system of cracks and knobby faces to crescent ledge, a large ledged shaped like
(you guessed it!) a crescent. Despite this pitch being a "choose your own
adventure to crescent ledge" style climb, it still was quite good. Jack did a
little variation up a crack in a roof that he was quite psyched on. It should
be noted that we ended up doing 4 guidebook pitches in 3 actual pitches with a
70 meter. They were easy to link.

![](/images/small_IMG_4795.jpg)
*Looking down on the very end of pitch 3 from the start of crescent ledge.*

![](/images/small_IMG_4797.jpg)
*Great spot to eat an energy bar or 3!*

We took a little break to devour some clif bars and let our toes rest from
hours of climbing, then started up pitch 4. This pitch was easy to forget,
mainly because it was about 120 feet of easy climbing up crescent ledge. My
feet weren't happy to be back in climbing shoes, either.

![](/images/small_IMG_4798.jpg)
*Crescent ledge really is a crescent. P4 goes right up the ledge/corner*

I took pitch 5, which was a link-up of pitch 6 and 7 in the guidebook. The
first half of the pitch was awesome climbing. I went up a corner into a crack
system that goes straight up a roof with an old piton. The rest of the pitch
wandered up a ledge system. I eventually set a belay at the top of a smaller
ledge close to easier terrain.

![](/images/small_IMG_4826.jpg)
*The view from the P6 belay, looking down on the second half of the pitch. Jack
is undoubtedly wondering how I managed to get so horrible at rope management.*

Jack lead one more easy pitch that traversed back right to the bottom of a big
stretch of 3rd and 4th class terrain. At this point the guidebook showed 5 more
pitches of extremely easy climbing with occasional 5.5 sections, so we decided
to simul-climb the rest of it. We folded the rope in half, I took all the gear,
and I set off with Jack belaying and eventually following. We made it to the
summit about 30 minutes later after walking up the majority of the last
stretch.

![](/images/small_IMG_4810.jpg)
*Looking down on the ledges we simul-climbed*

We summitted around 6:50, just in time to savor the incredible view 
all around us. We walked off in the dusk and made it back to the cars around
7:50. We were both exhausted yet giddy that a non-day of climbing turned into a
worthy epic, ascending over 1600 feet and one of the most worthy routes around.

![](/images/small_IMG_4807.jpg)
*Looking east towards the meadows. The picture doesn't really do it justice*


